To run the app => npm start

NodeJS and npm to be installed (Actually only npm is used here to install packages. Nodejs is a prerequisiste for npm, thats allb)

npm i -g create-react-app (This will install all the react dependencies)

Shortcuts (From Simple React Snippets)
imrc - import react and components
cc - create a new component class
sfc  - create a new stateless function component

create-react-app react-app1 (Creates a brand new react application)
    - index.js (Starting point of react app)
    - Component based just like Angular 2+ (infact most concepts of Angular seem to be borrowed from React)
    - package.json (Contains all dependencies)

npm i bootstrap (Boostrap css classes have been used in this sample application)

React Component
    - A javascript class that inherits from React.Component
    - We do same ES5 module imports like we do in Angular 2+
    - React component has two main parts 
        - state (view model of the component)
        - render() (function that renders the html)
    - React Virtual DOM - We write jsx that updates a virtual DOM which in turn keeps the real HTML DOM is sync
    This is the reason why we write code in jsx syntax instead of directly access DOM element using javascript syntax in React

    - React JSX (javascript xml syntax) is not a templating engine like Angular 2+ - It does not have ngIf, ngFor etc. 
    - So these things have to be done via javascript functions such as map() to iterate through an array etc etc.

Events in React
    - Very similar to Angular 2+ e.g. onClick={this.state.handleSave()}

Props - Nothing but input bindings when calling components from other places whatever you pass as attributes/children
is available as props

There is a separate extension in Chrome for React debugging - Very useful as it shows state, props...

setState() - When you change value of a state property you must do it via setState()

Props vs state
    - Props is data that inputed to the component (its readonly and value cannot be changed). Even output binding events are handled via Props only
    - State is data that is local (not visible outside the component) to the component (view model)

In state immutability is critical - We use spread ... operators a lot for this reason.

Check Object destructuring

Component Lifecyle hooks:
Mount - Instance of component is created. constructor(), render(), componentDidMount() are the 3 hooks called in given order
update - render(), componentDidUpdate() are the 2 hooks called in given order
UnMount - componentWillUnMount()

When a component is rendered all its child components are rendered in a recursive fashion

In index.js - At the end of the file there are many examples of ES6 javascript concepts we use in React commonly

Object - Oriented Javascript concepts

4 pillars of any OOP language:
Encapuslation - Class wrapping related properties and methods
Abstraction - Hiding the complexity (implementation details) and expose only essentials from a class
Inheritance - You know what this is.
Polymorphism - Many forms.

Functions are also objects in Javascript

Primitive types are immutable
Reference types are muted - Reference is always the same when you make a copy. Use spread operator to clone without mutation.
If you use spread in array of objects, only the array is cloned. The objects inside the array is not cloned. So we need to clone the objects separately again using ... spread again.

The spread if an important operator in React since the state cannot be directly modified. It needs to be cloned and setState() method called.
The map is another important operator to iterate through values and create elements to render (*ngFor equivalent in Angular)

Function Closures:
The variables of the parent function is accessible inside an inner function (IIFE is also a function)

 



